#summary how to setup conditional processors in the Bungeni Editor
#labels bungeni-editor

<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

= Introduction =

The Bungeni editor has a contextual toolbar driven editing interface that changes state based on the cursor position in the document. The behaviour of the toolbar is determined by a set of rule-based conditions defined in the settings, and activated via entries in toolbar.xml


= Operators = 

Currently the ":and:" and ":or:" operators are supported by the toolbar xml syntax, and allow chaining of conditions.
e.g. you can chain as follows :

cursorInSection:mainsection :and: sectionExists:sectionname

UPDATE:

A negation operator ("!") is also allowed to negate conditions :

{{{
!cursorInSection:mainsection :and: !sectionExists:asection
}}}


= Writing a new Conditon =

To write a new condition, the class must implement the IBungeniToolbarCondition interface, and implement 2 methods: 
`setOOComponentHelper()` - which allows passing the openoffice context object to the condition processor, and a ;
`processCondition()` - function that returns a boolean value indicating whether the condition was true or false. THe processCondition() function receives a BungeniToolbarCondition object which is created and passed in by the editor.
for e.g. if the condition in toolbar.xml was: tableExists:tblFigures
here the condition name is = tableExists
and the condition value is = tblFigures 
this value is used by the processCondition() function to evaluate the condition.

See the package: org.bungeni.editor.toolbar.conditions.runnable in the BungeniEditor to see examples of conditions.

= Registering a Conditon =

A condition needs to be registered once the condition has been written and compiled. 
This is done in the settings database in the table: `toolbar_conditions`

The new condition must be registered here witht he following parameters.
`DocType` - which doctype is this condition registered for
`ConditionName` - this is the class name of the condition (for example if the condition class was called tableExists, then the condition name must be the same)
`ConditonClass` - this is the full canoncial class path to the condition class,
for example if the condition tableExists was created in a package called :

`org.bungeni.plugins.toolbarconditions`

then the Condition Class for the conditon would be:

`org.bungeni.plugins.toolbarconditions.tableExists`

Once a condition has been registered in the settings database it is available for use in toolbar.xml, and can be chained with other conditions using operators.

= Currently Available Conditions = 

== cursorInSection == 

*parameter* - sectionName

example:
{{{
cursorInSection:sectionQuestion
}}}

the above returns true if the cursor is in a section called sectionQuestion.

sectionName can be a regular expression pattern:

example:
{{{
cursorInSection:sectionQ.
}}}

the above returns true for all section names matching the sectionQ. pattern :
sectionQuestion, sectionQuestionAnswer, sectionQA...etc..


== fieldExists / fieldNotExists == 

*parameter* - fieldName

example:
{{{
fieldExists:fieldName
}}}

== imageSelected == 

*parameter* - imageName

example:
{{{
imageSelected:imageName
}}}
evaluates to true if imageSelected is `imageName`


== imageSelectedIsNot == 

*parameter* - imageName

example:
{{{
imageSelectedIsNot:imageName
}}}
evaluates to true if image Selected is not `imageName`


== sectionExists / sectionNotExists == 

*parameter* - sectionName

example:
{{{
sectionExists:sectionName
}}}
evaluates to true if the section `sectionName` exists in the document
sectionName can be a regular expression pattern.

== textSelected == 

*parameter* - true or false

example:
{{{
textSelected:true
}}}
evaluates to true if text was selected

== Condition usage examples == 

Chained conditions :

{{{
condition="cursorInSection:masthead :and: textSelected:true :and: fieldNotExists:debaterecord_official_date"
}}}

[http://code.google.com/p/bungeni-portal/source/browse/BungeniOOo/BungeniEditor/trunk/BungeniEditorClient/dist/settings/toolbar_debate_b.xml  example toolbar.xml file]