#summary How to define doc types for Bungeni editor 

= Introduction = 

The Editor supports defining document types and providing them with different structures and different kinds of markup actions.

= Configuration = 

The doctype configuration resides within the [ConfigFolders Configuration Folder] in a file called doc_types.xml.

The following is an example doctype configuration for the Bill document type :

{{{
    <doctype name="bill"
        template="templates/bill.ott"
        state="1"
        root="bill"
        default-part="main">
        <title xml:lang="eng">Bill</title>
        <title xml:lang="spa">proyceto</title>
        <uri type="work">~CountryCode~DocumentType~Year-Month-Day</uri>
        <uri type="expression">~CountryCode~DocumentType~Year-Month-Day~LanguageCode</uri>
        <file-name-scheme>CountryCode~DocumentType~Year-Month-Day~LanguageCode</file-name-scheme>
        <metadata-editors>
            <title xml:lang="eng">Bill Metadata</title>
            <metadata-editor class="org.bungeni.editor.metadata.editors.GeneralMetadata" >
                <title xml:lang="eng">General</title>
            </metadata-editor>
            <metadata-editor class="org.bungeni.editor.metadata.editors.BillMetadata" >
                <title xml:lang="eng">Bill</title>
            </metadata-editor>
        </metadata-editors>
        <parts>
            <part name="main">
                <title xml:lang="eng">Main</title>
                <title xml:lang="spa">principal</title>
            </part>
            <part name="annex">
                <title xml:lang="eng">Annex</title>
                <title xml:lang="spa">adjuntar</title>
            </part>
        </parts>
    </doctype>
}}}

The different configuration options are described below :

=== doctype element ===

The _name_ attribute provides the name of the document type

{{{
 <doctype name="bill"
}}}

The _template_ attribute provides path to the document template used by the document type.

{{{
        template="templates/bill.ott"
}}}
This path is always relative to the [ConfigFolders Configuration Folder] of the Editor. For e.g. if your config 
folder is located on `c:/editor_configs/custom_config` , the templates path will be `c:/editor_configs/custom_config/templates/bill.ott`.


The _state_attribute indicates whether the doctype is enabled or not. `state="0"` disables the document type, and it will 
not appear in any visual selections in the Editor.
{{{
        state="1"
}}}

The _root_ attribute names the root section of the documen type. The root section with this name must be present in the template 
specified in the _template_ attribute.
{{{
        root="bill"
}}}

The _default-part_ attribute indicates the default part of the document
{{{
        default-part="main">
}}}

THe concept behind parts is to support segmented documents - usually documents like legislative bills are not one big document, but 
a set of composite documents (a "package") - which can include the main document, the annexes, attachments and reports.

= Outputs =

The doc types configuration file also allows specifying global namespaces in the `<outputs>` block :

{{{
<doctypes>
    <outputs>
	   <namespace prefix="an" type="main" desc="Akoma Ntoso" uri="http://www.akomantoso.org/2.0" />
	   <namespace prefix="bg" type="proprietary" desc="Proprietary" uri="http://www.proprietary.org" />
	   
	</outputs>
....
</doctypes>

}}}

This information is used during output generation to produce the final XML. The `proprietary` namespace is used to specify namespaces for proprietary metadata blocks.

