#summary Bungeni Editor Downloads
#labels Phase-Implementation,Featured

== Bungeni Editor == 


=== Current Release === 

[http://bungeni-editor.googlecode.com/files/install-1.1.2292.jar Bungeni Editor v1.1.2292 - requires OpenOffice.org 3.3.0]- Mar 30 2012
 * This interim release has some support for the Spanish language
 * Improved support for Locales and i18n
 * Configuration migration to XML from Settings db is ongoing
 * Akoma Ntoso 2.0 support - PENDING - a followup release in APRIL will provide a major upgrade for the XML transformation with support for back-tracing errors from Akoma Ntoso to the source ODF document
  


=== Older Releases === 

[http://bungeni-editor.googlecode.com/files/install-1.1.2268.jar Bungeni Editor v1.1.2268- requires OpenOffice.org 3.3.0] - Mar 16 2012 - Interim release, expect a more updated release shortly
 * UI and performance improvements. 
 * Changes to configuration interface : the embedded database for configuration is being gradually deprecated - all the action configuration has been moved to a more accessible configuration xml ; configuration aspects have been simplified; 
 * Transformation engine upgrades : the transformer now uses a single point of configuration to modify and customize pipelines; 
 * Numbering / Renumbering : this has been rewritten to do off-screen renumbering. On-screen renumbering was resource intensive - and didnt scale well with large documents [NOTE: UNSTABLE - still being tested ]
 * Schema : preliminary update to AN 2.0 [NOTE: UNSTABLE - still being tested ] 


[http://bungeni-editor.googlecode.com/files/install-1.1.1995.jar Bungeni Editor v1.1.1995- requires OpenOffice.org 3.3.0] - Sep 20 2011 - Fix to Transformer engine integration. The previous release had a crash situation during certain transformations.


[http://bungeni-editor.googlecode.com/files/install-1.1.1978.jar Bungeni Editor v1.1.1978 - requires OpenOffice.org 3.3.0] - Aug 17 2011 - Uses the integrated UI with openoffice.org. The editor and openoffice behave as one window. Due to gtk integration issues - this is a windows only release. Other improvements : fixes and improvements to translator engine ; a connector api for integrating data-sources has been introduced in this release (though not enabled)

[http://bungeni-editor.googlecode.com/files/install-1.0.1729.jar Bungeni Editor v1.0.1729 - requires OpenOffice.org 3.3.0] - Fixes to language and country selection in metadata dialogs. 9 Feb 2011. See [http://code.google.com/p/bungeni-editor/source/detail?r=1729 r1729]

[http://bungeni-editor.googlecode.com/files/install-1.0.1725.jar Bungeni Editor v1.0.1725 - requires OpenOffice.org 3.3.0] - Updated mechanism to set default locales. 8 Feb 2011. See [http://code.google.com/p/bungeni-editor/source/detail?r=1725 r1725]


[http://bungeni-editor.googlecode.com/files/install-1.0.1713.jar Bungeni Editor v1.0.1713 - requires OpenOffice.org 3.2.1] - Various fixes -- updating the bill document type which was crashing earlier.

[http://bungeni-editor.googlecode.com/files/install-1.0.1671.jar Bungeni Editor v1.0.1671 - requires OpenOffice.org 3.2.1] - Added user interface for locale selection

[http://bungeni-editor.googlecode.com/files/install-1.0.1654.jar Bungeni Editor v1.0.1654 - requires OpenOffice.org 3.2.1] - Added support for i18n message translations, upgraded to h2b new database format.


[http://code.google.com/p/bungeni-editor/downloads/detail?name=install-1.0-rel-branch-r1514.jar Bungeni Editor v1.0.1514 beta - requires Openoffice.org 3.1.1] - UI upgrade, enable judgement panels.

[http://code.google.com/p/bungeni-editor/downloads/detail?name=install-0.9.1419.jar Bungeni Editor v0.9.1419 - requires OpenOffice.org 3.1.1] - 19 May 2009 _Updates  : ODF 1.2 compatible release. Minor fixes and improvements in translator. Templates do not have gradient backgrounds anymore_


[http://code.google.com/p/bungeni-editor/downloads/detail?name=install-0.9.958.jar Bungeni Editor v0.9.958 - requires OpenOffice.org 3.1.1]

== Bungeni OpenOffice Helper == 

=== Current Release === 

[http://code.google.com/p/bungeni-editor/downloads/detail?name=ooobungenilib-2010-05-19.tar.gz Bungeni OpenOfficeHelper UNO Library- compatible with OpenOffice.org 3.1.1]

=== Older Releases ===

[http://code.google.com/p/bungeni-editor/downloads/detail?name=ooobungenilib-2009-08-24.tar.gz Bungeni OpenOfficeHelper UNO Library - compatible with OpenOffice.org 3.1.1]

== BungeniODFDOM == 
[http://code.google.com/p/bungeni-editor/downloads/detail?name=BungeniODFDOM-r1042.tar.bz2 BungeniODFDOM - extension library to ODFDOM - compatible with ODFDOM 0.8]

== Editor User Manual == 
[http://code.google.com/p/bungeni-editor/downloads/detail?name=editor-operations-manual-2009-12-06.pdf Editor User Manual - last updated 2009-12-06]

== OpenOffice.org == 

[http://archive.services.openoffice.org/pub/openoffice-archive/stable/ Archived OpenOffice.org releases]