#summary Defining a Section Type

= Introduction =

A *sectionType* in the Bungeni Editor gets translated to a container element in XML.
Metadata and Translation aspects can be associated with a sectionType via configuration and it also supports applying a limited set of visual properties via configuration. 

A sectionType is internally implemented in the Editor using a ODF text:section element. 


= Section Type Configuration =

a sectionType is defined in the `settings/configs/section_types/` folder where every documentType describes its available sectionTypes. 

The following describes a configuration for the Bill sectionType 'CoverPage' without additional metadata :
{{{
<sectionTypes for="bill">

<sectionType name="CoverPage"
    prefix="coverpage"
    numstyle="single"
    background="0xfaf8cb"
    indent-left=".1"
    indent-right="0"
    visibility="user" >

 </sectionType>

.....
</sectionTypes>
}}}

The individual parameters are described below :

 * *sectionType/@name - REQUIRED* - the name of the sectionType this is how the system will internally the type of the section.
 * *sectionType/@prefix - REQUIRED* -  the internal name of the section created using the sectionType. e.g. If we create a instance of a sectionType named "CoverPage" , a section called "coverpage" will be generated in the document.
 * *sectionType/@numstyle - REQUIRED* -  takes either 'single' or 'serial'. 'single' - will allow only one instance of the sectionType in the document. 'serial' will creation of multiple instance which will follow a serial number naming convention : coverpage1, coverpage2...etc.
 * *sectionType/@indent-left , sectionType@indent-right - OPTIONAL* - this specifies the indentation of an instance of the sectionType on the document
 * *sectionType/@background - OPTIONAL* - defaults to white, if specified either a background image (url:/path/to/image.png) or a hex-color (0xff0000 for red ) can be specified.
 * *sectionType/@visibility - OPTIONAL* - defaults to 'user' - not implemented yet, for future use. 

= Detailed Configuration Example = 

{{{
<sectionType name="Speech"
    prefix="speech"
    numstyle="serial"
    background="url:/settings/configs/backgrounds/shade-1.png"
    indent-left=".6"
    indent-right="0"
    visibility="user" >
     <metadatas>
         <metadata name="BungeniSpeechBy" />
         <metadata name="BungeniSpeechByURI" />
         <metadata name="BungeniSpeechAs" />
         <metadata name="BungeniSpeechAsDesc" />
         <metadata name="BungeniSpeechAsURI" />
         <metadata name="BungeniPersonId" />
         <metadata name="BungeniPersonRole" />
     </metadatas>
     <output>
         <meta>
             <TLCPerson id="$BungeniPersonID" href="$BungeniSpeechByURI" showAs="$BungeniSpeechBy" />
             <TLCRole id="$BungeniSpeechAs" href="$BungeniSpeechAsURI" showAs="$BungeniSpeechAsDesc" />
         </meta>
         <content>
            <speech by="#$BungeniPersonID" as="#$BungeniSpeechAs" /> 
         </content>
     </output>
 </sectionType>

}}}


= References =

 * [http://wiki.services.openoffice.org/wiki/Documentation/DevGuide/Text/Text_Sections OpenOffice document sections]
 * [http://docs.oasis-open.org/office/v1.2/os/OpenDocument-v1.2-os-part1.html#__RefHeading__1415162_253892949 ODF text:section]
 * [http://incubator.apache.org/odftoolkit/simple/document/javadoc/org/odftoolkit/simple/text/Section.html ODF Toolkit Section implementation]