#summary This page describes the configuration architecture of the bungeni document transformer
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

The Bungeni Transformer uses XSLT to convert a ODT document to AkomaNtoso.
Structural markup & metadata is transformed to akomantoso elements and attributes.

= System Components = 

The primary system components involved in the transformation process are as follows :

 * ODFDOM - this is the open source ODF processing library provided by Sun
 * Saxon - this is the open source XSLT 2.0 transformer written by Michael Kay
 * Xerces - this is the DOM processor
 * Restlet - this is used to provide a REST based API layer on the transformer. Client integration of the transformer is done over http using the restlet http client API.

The transformer is a java jar application with a fixed manifest. _Perhaps this needs to be changed into a standard class library without a hard-coded manifest_.

= How the Transformer Works = 

 # *Input Document* - The input document is a marked up ODT document. The documents are 
marked up using the Bungeni Editor. Markup appears in the ODF in the following form ; The following is the ODF source for a marked up speech. The speech is marked out as a named section. Metadata is associated via the style-properties of the section :

{{{
                    <text:section name="speech4" style-name="Sect12">
                        <text:p style-name="Standard"><text:reference-mark-start
                                name="BungeniSpeechBy:GideunMusiku8670"/>The Vice-President and
                            Minister for Home Affairs (Mr. Musyoka):<text:reference-mark-end
                                name="BungeniSpeechBy:GideunMusiku8670"/>
                        </text:p>
                        <text:p style-name="Standard">Mr. Speaker, Sir, I undertake to communicate
                            that concern by the hon. Member to the Minister for Local Government.
                        </text:p>
                    </text:section>
}}}

The style properties appear within the automatic-styles block in the header of the same document :

{{{
<style:style family="section" name="Sect12">
            <style:section-properties anx:BungeniPersonID="559" anx:BungeniPersonRole="559"
                anx:BungeniSectionType="Speech" anx:BungeniSpeechAs="Minister"
                anx:BungeniSpeechAsDesc="Minister"
                anx:BungeniSpeechAsURI="/ontology/roles/ke/minister"
                anx:BungeniSpeechBy="Gideun Musiku"
                anx:BungeniSpeechByURI="ken.person.Gideun.Musiku.1951-10-21"
                anx:__BungeniMetaEditable="true"
                anx:__BungeniMetaEditor="toolbarSubAction.makeDebateSpeechBlockSection.section_creation"
                background-color="transparent" margin-left="0.6in" margin-right="0in"
                editable="false">
                <style:columns column-count="1" column-gap="0in"/>
                <style:background-image filter-name="PNG - Portable Network Graphic"
                    actuate="onLoad" href="Pictures/1000000000000004000000045A636FA8.png"
                    type="simple"/>
            </style:section-properties>
        </style:style>
}}}

The marked up custom metadata for the speech is captured in the anx: namespace which is defined as follows in the ODF header :

{{{
xmlns:anx="http://anx.akomantoso.org/1.0"
}}}

 # *Translator Config* - The Bungeni translator uses a sequence of chained XSLT to convert a ODF document into ANxml. The translator configuration is passed as input to the ODT translator. The translator config file looks like as show below, and can be found in the configfiles/odttoakn folder of the translator. Translator configs are defined per document type. The following is what a translator configuration for the debate looks like  :
{{{
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE properties SYSTEM "http://java.sun.com/dtd/properties.dtd">
<properties>
	<!-- debaterecord -->
	<entry key="metalexConfigPath">odttometalex/debaterecord/config.xml</entry>
	<entry key="akomantosoSchemaPath">odttoakn/schema/akomantoso10.xsd</entry>
	<entry key="akomantosoAddNamespaceXSLTPath">odttoakn/defaultvalues/debaterecord/OdtToAknAddNamespace.xsl</entry>
	<entry key="resourceBundlePath">localisation.messages.LabelsBundle</entry> 
</properties>
}}}
